## What is Upstash Redis?

Upstash is a serverless database service compatible with RedisÃÂ® API.

## What Does a Serverless Database Mean?

You do not have to manage and provision servers. You do not deal with
configuring or maintaining any server. You just use the service and pay what you
use. If you are not using it, you should not be paying.

## What Are the Use Cases?

Upstash works for all the common use cases for RedisÃÂ®. You can use Upstash in
your serverless stack. In addition, you can use Upstash as storage (or caching)
for your serverless functions. See Use Cases for more.

## Do You Support All RedisÃÂ® APIs?

Most of them. See RedisÃÂ® API Compatibility for the list of supported commands.

## Can I Use Any Redis Client?

Yes, Upstash is compatible with the Redis client protocol.

## Which Cloud Providers Do You Support?

Initially, we have AWS and GCP. Digital Ocean is planned.

## Which Regions Do You Support in AWS?

We start with AWS-US-EAST-1 (Virginia), GCP-US-CENTRAL-1 (IOWA), AWS-US-WEST-1
(N. California), AWS-EU-WEST-1 (Ireland), AWS-APN-NE-1 (Japan). We will add new
regions soon. You can expedite this by telling us your use case and the region
you need by emailing to feedback@upstash.com

## Should My Client Be Hosted in AWS to Use Upstash?

No. Your client can be anywhere but the clients in AWS regions will give you
better performance.

## How Do You Compare Upstash With ElastiCache?

Upstash is serverless. With ElastiCache, you pay even if you do not use the
database. See Compare for more info.

## How Do You Compare Upstash With Redis Labs or Compose.io?

Upstash is serverless. With Redis Labs or Compose.io, you always pay a lot when
your data size is big but your traffic is low. In Upstash, the pricing is based
on per request. See Compare for more info.

## Do You Persist Data?

Yes, by default, we write data to the disk. So, in case of a failure, you should
not lose any data.

## Do You Support Redis Cluster?

We support replication in the Premium type database. We do not support sharding yet.

## I Have a Database With 10GB of Data, I Pay Nothing If I Do Not Use It. Is That Correct?

You only pay for the disk storage cost, which is $0.25 per GB. For your case, you
will pay $2.5 monthly.

## What Happens When I Exceed the Request Limit on Free Database (10,000 Requests per Day)?

The exceeding commands return an exception.

## When I Upgrade My Free Database, Do I Lose Data?

You do not lose data, but clients may disconnect and reconnect.

## Upstash Is Much Cheaper Than ElastiCache and Redis Labs for Big Data Sizes (> 10GB). How Is That Possible?

Upstash's storage layer is multi-tiered. We keep your data in both memory and
block storage (disk). The entries that are not accessed frequently are removed
from the memory but stored on disk. The latency overhead of idle entries is limited
thanks to the SSD-based storage. Multi-tiered storage allows us to provide more
flexible pricing.

## Will My Data Be Safe?

Upstash is a GDPR compliant company. We do not share any user data with third
parties. See our Legal Documents for more information.

## How Do You Handle the Noisy Neighbor Problem? Do Other Tenants Affect My Database?

Databases are isolated in some aspects but still share some hardware resources
such as CPU or network. To avoid the noisy neighbor influence on these resources,
there are specific quotas for each database. When they reach any of these quotas,
they are throttled using a backoff strategy. When multiple databases sharing the
same hardware are close to the limits, our system can add new resources to the
pool and/or migrate some of the databases to distribute the load.

Also, if a database exceeds its quotas very frequently, we notify users about
whether they want to upgrade to an upper plan. Databases in pro plans are placed
either on dedicated or more isolated hardware due to higher resource needs.